---
title: "Research"
permalink: /research/
---

# Working Papers

The Effect of Supervisors on Police Behavior (Job Market Paper, draft coming soon!)<br>
<span style="font-size:0.75em">  How can policymakers get police officers to reduce overly aggressive law enforcement tactics without harming the enforcement of serious crimes? In this paper, I study the role of first-line police supervisors --- sergeants --- in officer arrest decisions. I leverage a unique institutional setting where officers switch sergeants frequently and cannot control the timing of these changes. I document substantial variation across sergeants in the number arrests made by their officers. Moving an officer from a 10th percentile sergeant to one in the 90th percentile would increase monthly arrests by 42% relative to the mean. In addition, I show that sergeant effects on arrests for serious and low-level crimes are independent from one another. Sergeants increase serious arrests by incentivizing their officers to respond to more 911 calls, while they increase low-level arrests through discretionary drug enforcement, the latter of which results in disproportionate increases in use of force. Connecting these estimates to pre-promotion characteristics, I find that sergeants who scored the lowest on their promotional exams are over-represented among those who increase low-level arrests. My findings suggest that sergeant personnel changes can reduce low-level arrests without changing officer productivity in other dimensions.  </span>

[\`Who You Gonna Call?\` 911 Call Takers and Police Discretion](../assets/pdfs/SmithCallTakers.pdf)<br>
<span style="font-size:0.75em"> Police make high-stakes decisions under multiple sources of uncertainty, often resulting in adverse outcomes that are disproportionately experienced by minority citizens. What source of information do police use to make their enforcement decisions and does it generate accurate decisions? I examine a common information source for police officers throughout the United States: risk assessments conducted by 911 call takers. Exploiting random variation in the automated call distribution system used by a large metropolitan 911 center, I show that police are 37.7% more likely to make arrests at calls that the call taker deems risky. I demonstrate  that officer perceptions are a primary channel through which the effects operate. This results in lower quality police decisions: misdemeanor arrests made at calls that are on the margin of being classified as risky are 14.9 percentage points less likely to result in a conviction. In cases where the race of the involved civilians is the same as the responding officer or the responding officer has more job experience, call taker information has a negligible effect on arrests. The results suggest that the strength of an officer's priors determines the extent to which officers rely on information transmitted by call takers.  </span>

Teams in the Public Sector: Evidence from Police Officers (Draft available upon request)<br>
<span style="font-size:0.75em"> I estimate the effects of teamwork in 911 call responses. In order to circumvent the endogenous assignment of more officers to calls with greater unobserved severity, I leverage exogenous variation in the number of double-manned patrol vehicles across shifts. I find that police are more likely to use their enforcement powers when dispatched in teams: an additional officer being dispatched to a call increases the likelihood of an arrest being made by 24% relative to the mean. I interpret these findings as evidence that officer teams reduce the costs of enforcement. Indeed, in the rare case where officers experience suspect resistance, the presence of more officers is associated with a lower likelihood of an officer being sent to the hospital. The results suggest that policing strategies which maximize patrol area to increase deterrence come at the cost of lower incapacitation capabilities.  </span>


